feat(k8s): use of sfs with k8s (#5296)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/kubernetes/how-to/use-sfs-with-kubernetes.mdx

tags: kubernetes kubernetes-kapsule kapsule sfs
dates:
  validation: 2025-07-18
  posted: 2025-07-18
categories:
  - containers
  - kubernetes
---
import Requirements from '@macros/iam/requirements.mdx'

The Scaleway File Storage Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver enables Kubernetes users to manage Scaleway File Storage file systems within their clusters.  
The Scaleway File Storage CSI driver is designed to work with Kubernetes Kapsule and Kosmos clusters, providing a standardized interface to create, manage, and attach file storage volumes to your containerized workloads. For more details on Scaleway File Storage, refer to the [Scaleway File Storage documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/file-storage/).

## Supported features

The Scaleway File Storage CSI driver supports the following features:

- Dynamic provisioning: Automatically create Scaleway File Storage volumes using PVCs and StorageClasses.
- Import of existing Volumes: Integrate pre-existing Scaleway File Storage volumes into Kubernetes.

> - Volume upsizing: The size of the volume can be [increased](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-filestorage-csi/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#file-systems-resizing) without the need to detach the File System

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Volume upsizing: The size of the volume can be [increased](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-filestorage-csi/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#file-systems-resizing) without the need to detach the file system
```
I think lower case as it's not the name of a product? Or is it a Kubernetes thing to capitalize it?

- `ReadWriteOnce` access mode: The volume can be mounted as read-write by a single node.
- `ReadOnlyMany` access mode: The volume can be mounted read-only by many nodes.
- `ReadWriteMany` access mode: The volume can be mounted as read-write by many nodes.

<Requirements />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Created](/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/) a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster
- Access to the Scaleway File Storage API

## Installation

The Scaleway File Storage CSI driver is preinstalled on Scaleway's managed Kubernetes.

<Message type="note">

>   During the private beta this feature is only available for users invited into the beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This feature is currently in [Private Beta](https://www.scaleway.com/en/betas/), and available to selected testers only.
```

- `ReadWriteOnce` access mode: The volume can be mounted as read-write by a single node.
- `ReadOnlyMany` access mode: The volume can be mounted read-only by many nodes.
- `ReadWriteMany` access mode: The volume can be mounted as read-write by many nodes.

<Requirements />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Created](/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/) a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster
- Added the tag `scw-filestorage-csi` to your Kubernetes Kapsule cluster
- Access to the Scaleway File Storage API

## Installation

The Scaleway File Storage CSI driver is preinstalled on Scaleway's managed Kubernetes.

<Message type="note">
  This feature is currently in [Private Beta](https://www.scaleway.com/en/betas/), and available to selected testers only.
</Message>

You can run the following command to check that the CSI driver pods are running:

   ```bash

>    kubectl get pods -n kube-system -l app=scaleway-filestorage-csi

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   kubectl get pods -n kube-system -l app=filestorage-csi-node
```

---
title: How to use SFS with Kubernetes Kapsule
description: This page explains how to use the Scaleway File Storage Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver to enable Kubernetes users to manage Scaleway File Storage volumes within their clusters.
tags: kubernetes kubernetes-kapsule kapsule sfs
dates:
  validation: 2025-07-18
  posted: 2025-07-18
categories:
  - containers
  - kubernetes
---
import Requirements from '@macros/iam/requirements.mdx'

> The Scaleway File Storage Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver enables Kubernetes users to manage Scaleway File Storage volumes within their clusters.  

Reviewer 2: > The Scaleway File Storage Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver enables Kubernetes users to manage Scaleway File Storage **volumes** within their clusters.  

Not sure if we want to use the term "File(space here ?)Systems" (File Storage term) or "Volumes" (Kubernetes term) here and in the rest of the doc

The Scaleway File Storage CSI driver is designed to work with Kubernetes Kapsule and Kosmos clusters, providing a standardized interface to create, manage, and attach file storage volumes to your containerized workloads. For more details on Scaleway File Storage, refer to the [Scaleway File Storage documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/file-storage/).

## Supported features

The Scaleway File Storage CSI driver supports the following features:

- Dynamic provisioning: Automatically create Scaleway File Storage volumes using PVCs and StorageClasses.

> - `ReadWriteMany` access mode: Allows multiple pods to read from and write to the same file storage volume simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: maybe we can clarify that volumes can be mounted on multiple nodes too?

> ReadWriteOnce – the volume can be mounted as read-write by a single node
> ReadOnlyMany – the volume can be mounted read-only by many nodes
> ReadWriteMany – the volume can be mounted as read-write by many nodes

https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/09/13/read-write-once-pod-access-mode-alpha/

- Import of existing Volumes: Integrate pre-existing Scaleway File Storage volumes into Kubernetes.

> - Custom storage classes: Define specific parameters, such as file system type (e.g., ext4), for volumes.

Reviewer 2: > - Custom storage classes: Define specific parameters, ~~such as file system type (e.g., ext4)~~, for volumes.

The filesystem type cannot be set by the customer as it's already formatted before it's attached the first time. Maybe we can remove this line as there is no CSI specific parameter to set?

> 

Reviewer 2: I would also add volume expansion/resizing as a feature (https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-filestorage-csi/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#file-systems-resizing)

<Requirements />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Created](/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/) a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster
- Helm installed for deploying the CSI driver
- Access to the Scaleway File Storage API

> ## Installation

Reviewer 2: It's not needed to install the CSI driver when using our managed Kubernetes.

During the File Storage product beta, customers can use a magic tag to pre-install it automatically. I'm not sure if we want to publicly communicate this tag yet.

   ```bash
   helm upgrade --install scaleway-filestorage-csi --namespace kube-system scaleway/scaleway-filestorage-csi \
     --set controller.scaleway.env.SCW_DEFAULT_ZONE=fr-par-1 \
     --set controller.scaleway.env.SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID=<your-project-id> \
     --set controller.scaleway.env.SCW_ACCESS_KEY=<your-access-key> \
     --set controller.scaleway.env.SCW_SECRET_KEY=<your-secret-key>
   ```

   Replace `<your-project-id>`, `<your-access-key>`, and `<your-secret-key>` with your Scaleway credentials.

3. Check that the CSI driver pods are running:

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods -n kube-system -l app=scaleway-filestorage-csi
   ```

   You should see the `scaleway-filestorage-csi-controller` and `scaleway-filestorage-csi-node` pods in a `Running` state.

## Using the Scaleway File Storage CSI Driver

The CSI driver supports dynamic provisioning of Persistent Volumes (PVs) and Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs).

### Creating a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC)

1. Create a file named `pvc.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
   metadata:
     name: my-pvc
   spec:
     accessModes:
       - ReadWriteMany
     resources:
       requests:

>          storage: 100G

Reviewer 2: maybe we can add a note to specify that the minimum size is 100G?

<Message type="important">
  Ensure you have created your Kapsule cluster with the tag `scw-filestorage-csi` (or added it to an existing cluster) to have the File Storage CSI driver enabled on your cluster.
</Message>

<Requirements />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Created](/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/) a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster
- Installed the Kubernetes command-line tool `kubectl`
- Added the tag `scw-filestorage-csi` to your Kubernetes Kapsule cluster
- Access to the Scaleway [File Storage API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/file-storage/)

## Installation

The Scaleway File Storage CSI driver is preinstalled on Scaleway's managed Kubernetes.

<Message type="tip">
  Download the cluster's **kubeconfig** configuration file and make sure `kubectl` is configured to use the cluster's configuration before running any of the following commands. [Learn more.](/kubernetes/how-to/connect-cluster-kubectl/)
</Message>

<Message type="note">

>   This feature is currently in [Private Beta](https://www.scaleway.com/en/betas/), and available to selected testers only.

Reviewer 3: I would suggest to add the #file-storage to the url to directly link to the File Storage Private Beta section: https://www.scaleway.com/en/betas/#file-storage

Author: ```suggestion
  This feature is currently in [Private Beta](https://www.scaleway.com/en/betas/#file-storage), and available to selected testers only.
```
